We have been plowing
through our quick wins,
like just racking up the Ws.
And in so doing, we've been sort of
reviewing some features we know,
we've been finding out some
little fun facts and things.
And we have been using a lot of functions
but not really talking about it as much.
So that's gonna change right now.
[LAUGH] So functions,
little itty-bitty topic that you could
spend your entire life thinking about,
and many people do have, I guess.
And for example, we've been seeing a lot
of these callback functions, right?
Like when we pass in handlers to
the addEventListener method, or
when we pass in callbacks to the timeout
and interval setters and cancellers.
And we as JavaScript developers might
just be used to thinking, yeah,
of course, I can just pass in
a function as an argument to some other
function that does some other stuff,
but then also uses that function,
sends it to the queue, and then it
eventually ends up on the call stack, and
we're, we kinda take that for granted a
little bit sometimes, at least I do sided.
But it's actually really cool
that JavaScript does this and
totally crucial for our lives.
And so just to throw a little bit more
jargon at you, we're talking about,
the fact that JavaScript has functions
that can accept other functions as
arguments or return other functions as
return values means it has a feature
that's often referred to
as first-class functions,
meaning functions are sort
of first-class data.
They can be passed around like a string or
like an array.
So in JavaScript,
you can pass a function as the input or
the output return value of another
function and we do that all the time
with our adEventListeners and
our set timeouts and whatnot.
And so those functions that
take in other functions or
might return another function as
a value would be in the Jargon world,
something we could call
higher-order functions,
meaning they're functions that
operate on other functions.
This can become important for
certain things, for example,
earlier we noticed that our
math random value wasn't
updating because it was captured
outside of a function and
then passed in or used in the body
of another callback function.
So that is sort of something
that often tends to happen when,
not just when we're declaring
functions within a particular, or
variables within a particular scope
in our program, but also when we're,
let's say returning a function
from another function,
from a higher order function.
Now, you might say why
would you want to do that?
Why would I need a function
back from my function?
I already had a function,
I don't want another function.
How many times am I gonna
say the word function today?
I don't know anybody's guess.
It's gonna stop having any meaning to all
of us because of whatever that thing is
that's called that your brain does.
Anyway, these functions
that return other functions
can be very useful when
there's like a particular
operation that you tend
to have to run a lot and
you want a kind of more
compact way to call it.
So for example, in the console, have
we tried so in addition to console.log?
Have we used things like console.warn,
console.error?
Try it out if you haven't in your browser
console, just try seeing what those do.
So there's so these are the different log
levels that we can access
in our JavaScript console.
So for example, if I do,
console.log ('hello') I
get a regular old message that
we're used to looking at but
if I do console.warn,
it's full as well yellow,
whatever, and even more scary
I could do like console error.
No, okay.
And now it's very intense looking.
And what's nice is in when
you're debugging, sometimes,
have you ever loaded a page and
just poked around in the console and
there's just a bajillion things and it's
like how am I supposed to find anything?
Well, we can tell our console to only
display certain levels of information, for
example, maybe I only want errors, I don't
wanna see the warnings or the logs, or
maybe I don't know, just yellowing and
I don't want the word errors.
[LAUGH] But in any case,
so log levels, right?
So maybe I want like,
as a developer, maybe I am super
excited to not have to type
console dot every single time,
[LAUGH] and I can make a logger
function where I give it
a certain log level that
I want to be using, and
then I return a function that Itself
will take in the message I want to log,
that returned function,
which I've called log here, but
I don't even really need to give
it a name if I don't wanna.
That is gonna find the appropriate
console method by using
the property access in the square
bracket that we can do on objects.
We can access a programmatically
determined property without the dot using
the square brackets, and then call
that on the message that I gave it.
So the way I could use this then is
like I've determined a particular level,
and I've determined that I don't
wanna keep typing console.warn,
I wanna just type worryUser,
and then my message.
Probably not something you would
write in prod, but you get the idea.
So I can make a logger with this level,
and then I will get,
when I call worryUser
a console.warn little warning flag,
and it'll be in that
level of my console logs.